[Pages]: Update Sveltekit adapter (#5081)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/pages/framework-guides/deploy-a-svelte-site.md

| Production branch     | `main`             |
| Build command         | `npm run build`    |
| Build directory       | `build`            |
| Environment Variables | `NODE_VERSION: 16` |

</div>

Optionally, you can customize the **Project name** field. It defaults to the GitHub repository's name, but it does not need to match. The **Project name** value is assigned as your `*.pages.dev` subdomain.

{{<Aside type="warning">}}

> **Important:** SvelteKit requires Node.js v16.x or later to build successfully. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/login) > **Pages** > **Settings** > **Environment Variables** section and add a `NODE_VERSION` variable with a value of `16` or greater.

Reviewer: On second thought this info isn't really *required* per-say. If the user does `16` it will work, it just won't if they do `16.8` or something strange like that.

{{</Aside>}}

### SvelteKit Configuration

Currently, SvekteKit has three available adapters that you can use to deploy a SvelteKit project to Cloudflare Pages.

1. [`@sveltejs/adapter-auto`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-auto)
2. [`@sveltejs/adapter-cloudflare`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-cloudflare) 
3. [`@sveltejs/adapter-static`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-static)

You will need to pick the one that best suits your use case. 

### SvelteKit Adapter Auto

The SvelteKit project's default configuration uses [`@sveltejs/adapter-auto`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-auto), which automatically chooses the adapter for your current environment. While you can use this default adapter when deploying to Cloudflare Pages by setting your **Build directory** to `.svelte-kit/cloudflare`, local development has a few disadvantages.

> When building locally, [`@sveltejs/adapter-auto`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-auto) has no way to know what platform you are going to deploy to, so the build will fail. Since the environment variables are not set, you cannot use Cloudflare Pages features, like Direct Uploads or use Functions, locally. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When building locally, [`@sveltejs/adapter-auto`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-auto) has no way to know what platform you are going to deploy to. This will cause the build to fail. Since the environment variables are not set, you cannot use Cloudflare Pages features, like Direct Uploads or Functions, locally. 
```

{{<Aside type= "note" header="Optional configuration">}}

SvelteKit detects Pages via the `CF_PAGES` environment variable. You can use the auto adapter and still get all the benefits of testing and building locally by updating your build command to `CF_PAGES=1 vite build`.

{{</Aside>}}

> However, in production, to deploy your Sveltekit application on Pages, First update the **Build directory** to `.svelte-kit/cloudflare`; this lets the [`@sveltejs/adapter-auto`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-auto) know you are deploying to a Cloudflare Pages environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To deploy your Sveltekit application in production, update the **Build directory** to `.svelte-kit/cloudflare`. This lets the [`@sveltejs/adapter-auto` package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-auto) know you are deploying to a Cloudflare Pages environment.
```

### Usage

To add the SvelteKit Cloudflare adapter to your application: 

1. Install the Cloudflare Adapter by running `npm i --save-dev @sveltejs/adapter-cloudflare` in your terminal. 
2. Include the adapter in `svelte.config.js`:

```diff
---
filename: svelte.config.js
---
++ import adapter from '@sveltejs/adapter-cloudflare';
++
/** @type {import('@sveltejs/kit').Config} */
const config = {
  kit: {
++  adapter: adapter(),
    // ... truncated ...
  }
};

export default config;
```
3. Include support for environment variables. The `env` object, containing KV namespaces and other storage objects, is passed to SvelteKit via the platform property along with context and caches, meaning you can access it in hooks and endpoints. For example:

```diff
---
filename:  src/app.d.ts
---

declare namespace App {
    interface Locals {}

+   interface Platform {
+       env: {
+           COUNTER: DurableObjectNamespace;
+       };
+       context: {
+           waitUntil(promise: Promise<any>): void;
+       };
+       caches: CacheStorage & { default: Cache }
+   }

    interface Session {}

    interface Stuff {}
}

```

> 4. Access the added KV or Durable objects namespace in your component with `env` : 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Access the added KV or Durable objects namespace in your endpoint with `env` : 
```
SvelteKit components are different than endpoints so this should be clarified a bit.

| Production branch     | `main`             |
| Build command         | `npm run build`    |
| Build directory       | `build`            |
| Environment Variables | `NODE_VERSION: 16` |

</div>

Optionally, you can customize the **Project name** field. It defaults to the GitHub repository's name, but it does not need to match. The **Project name** value is assigned as your `*.pages.dev` subdomain.

{{<Aside type="warning">}}

> **Important:** SvelteKit requires Node.js v16.x or later to build successfully. You must expand the **Environment Variables (advanced)** section and add a `NODE_VERSION` variable with a value of `16` or greater.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Important:** SvelteKit requires Node.js v16.x or later to build successfully. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/login) > **Pages** > **Settings** > **Environment Variables** section and add a `NODE_VERSION` variable with a value of `16` or greater.
```
Is this only updatable

{{</Aside>}}

### SvelteKit Configuration

> Currently, SvekteKit has three available adapters that you can use to deploy a SvelteKit project to Cloudflare Pages. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, SvekteKit has three available adapters that you can use to deploy a SvelteKit project to Cloudflare Pages.
```

1. [`@sveltejs/adapter-auto`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-auto)
2. [`@sveltejs/adapter-cloudflare`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-cloudflare) 
3. [`@sveltejs/adapter-static`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-static)

You will need to pick the one that best suits your use case. 

### SvelteKit Adapter Auto

> The SvelteKit project's default configuration uses [`@sveltejs/adapter-auto`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-auto), which automatically chooses the adapter for your current environment. While you can use this default adapter when deploying to Cloudflare Pages by setting your **Build directory** to `.svelte-kit/cloudflare`, local development has a few drawbacks. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The SvelteKit project's default configuration uses [`@sveltejs/adapter-auto`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-auto), which automatically chooses the adapter for your current environment. While you can use this default adapter when deploying to Cloudflare Pages by setting your **Build directory** to `.svelte-kit/cloudflare`, local development has a few disadvantages.
```

> When building locally, [`@sveltejs/adapter-auto`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-auto) has no way to know what platform you're going to deploy to, so the build fails. Also, since the environment variables aren't set, you can not use Cloudflare Pages features like Direct uploads or use Functions locally. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When building locally, [`@sveltejs/adapter-auto`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-auto) has no way to know what platform you are going to deploy to, so the build will fail. Since the environment variables are not set, you cannot use Cloudflare Pages features, like Direct Uploads or use Functions, locally. 
```

### Usage

You can add this adapter to your application in the following steps: 

1. Install the Cloudflare Adapter by running `npm i --save-dev @sveltejs/adapter-cloudflare` in your terminal 

2. Include the adapter in the `svelte.config.js`

```diff
---
filename: svelte.config.js
---
++ import adapter from '@sveltejs/adapter-cloudflare';
++
/** @type {import('@sveltejs/kit').Config} */
const config = {
  kit: {
++  adapter: adapter(),
    // ... truncated ...
  }
};

export default config;
```
3. Include support for environment variables; the `env` object containing KV namespaces etc, is passed to SvelteKit via the platform property along with context and caches, meaning you can access it in hooks and endpoints, for example:

```diff
---
filename:  src/app.d.ts
---

declare namespace App {
    interface Locals {}

+   interface Platform {
+       env: {
+           COUNTER: DurableObjectNamespace;
+       };
+       context: {
+           waitUntil(promise: Promise<any>): void;
+       };
+       caches: CacheStorage & { default: Cache }
+   }

    interface Session {}

    interface Stuff {}
}

```

> In your component access bindings like KV and durable objects namespace with `env` : 

Reviewer 2: Is this supposed to be instructions? What is this sentence asking the developer to do?

```js
export async function post({ request, platform }) {
  const counter = platform.env.COUNTER.idFromName('A');
}
```

> When deploying with the with [`@sveltejs/adapter-cloudflare`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-cloudflare) or [`@sveltejs/adapter-auto`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-auto), select the new GitHub repository that you created and, in the **Set up builds and deployments** section, provide the following information:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When deploying with [`@sveltejs/adapter-cloudflare`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-cloudflare) or [`@sveltejs/adapter-auto`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-auto), select the new GitHub repository that you created and, in **Set up builds and deployments** of your Pages project setup, provide the following information:
```

<div>

| Configuration option  | Value                   |
| --------------------- | ----------------------- |
| Production branch     | `main`                  |
| Build command         | `npm run build`         |
| Build directory       | `.svelte-kit/cloudflare`|

> | Environment Variables | `NODE_VERSION: 16 or 14`|

Reviewer 2: Is this how you actually write the environment variable?

</div>

### SvelteKit Static adapter

> The static adapter only produces client-side static assets; compatible with Cloudflare Pages. To use this adapter first, install the [`@sveltejs/adapter-static`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-static) package:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The static adapter only produces client-side static assets and is compatible with Cloudflare Pages. To use this adapter, install the [`@sveltejs/adapter-static`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-static) package:
```

Then, in the `svelte.config.js` file, update the adapter selection:

```diff
---
filename:  svelte.config.js
---

++ import adapter from '@sveltejs/adapter-static';
++
/** @type {import('@sveltejs/kit').Config} */
const config = {
  kit: {
++  adapter: adapter(
++  {
++     // default options are shown. On some platforms
++    // these options are set automatically — see below
++    pages: 'build',
++    assets: 'build',
++    fallback: null,
++    precompress: false
++  }
++),
++ prerender: {
++     // This can be false if you're using a fallback (i.e. SPA mode)
++      default: true
++  }
  
  }
};

export default config;
```

When deploying a SvelteKit application using [`@sveltejs/adapter-static`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-static) set the **Build directory** to `build`. 

> {{<Aside>}}

Reviewer 2: Why is one aside deleted but the closing aside is still there?

Author: I am not sure what you mean. I can't see the aside in the preview.

{{</Aside>}}

## Functions setup 

In SvelteKit, functions are written as endpoints. Functions contained in the `/functions` directory at the project's root will not be included in the deployment, which compiles to a single `_worker.js` file. 

> When writing your endpoints in SveleteKit, attach the corresponding `onRequest` handler to your SvelteKit endpoint. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When writing your endpoints in SvelteKit, attach the corresponding `onRequest` handler to your SvelteKit endpoint. For example:
```
Small typo.

```js
---
filename: src/routes/random.js
---
/** @type {import('@sveltejs/kit').RequestHandler} */
export async function get() {
  return {
    status: 200,
    headers: {
      'access-control-allow-origin': '*'
    },
    body: {
      number: Math.random()
    }
  };
}
```

The `GET` request handler here will correspond to an `onRequestGet` in Pages Functions. 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<Aside type= "note" header="SvelteKit Endpoints">}}
For more information about SvelteKit Endpoints, see the [SvelteKit docs](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/routing#endpoints).
{{</Aside>}}
```

{{</Aside>}}

## Functions setup 

In SvelteKit, functions are written as endpoints and Functions contained in the `/functions` directory at the project's root will not be included in the deployment, which compiles to a single _worker.js file. 

In other to have the correct request handlers in Pages functions. When writing your endpoints in SveleteKit, attach the corresponding `onRequest` handler to your SvelteKit endpoint. For example:

```js
---
filename: src/routes/random.js
---
/** @type {import('@sveltejs/kit').RequestHandler} */
export async function get() {
  return {
    status: 200,
    headers: {
      'access-control-allow-origin': '*'
    },
    body: {
      number: Math.random()
    }
  };
}
```

> The `GET` request handler here will correspond to an `OnRequestGet` in Pages Functions. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `GET` request handler here will correspond to an `onRequestGet` in Pages Functions. 
```

### Functions error logging

While Functions are in beta, they don't have error logs yet. So your alternative right now is to use a reporting platform like Sentry. 

> ## Learn more

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

## Learn more
```

{{</Aside>}}

## Functions setup 

> In SvelteKit, functions are written as endpoints and Functions contained in the `/functions` directory at the project's root will not be included in the deployment, which compiles to a single _worker.js file. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In SvelteKit, functions are written as endpoints. Functions contained in the `/functions` directory at the project's root will not be included in the deployment, which compiles to a single `_worker.js` file. 
```

> In other to have the correct request handlers in Pages functions. When writing your endpoints in SveleteKit, attach the corresponding `onRequest` handler to your SvelteKit endpoint. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When writing your endpoints in SveleteKit, attach the corresponding `onRequest` handler to your SvelteKit endpoint. For example:
```
The first sentence is not a full sentence?

```js
---
filename: src/routes/random.js
---
/** @type {import('@sveltejs/kit').RequestHandler} */
export async function get() {
  return {
    status: 200,
    headers: {
      'access-control-allow-origin': '*'
    },
    body: {
      number: Math.random()
    }
  };
}
```

The `GET` request handler here will correspond to an `onRequestGet` in Pages Functions. 

### Functions error logging

While Functions are in beta, they don't have error logs yet. So your alternative right now is to use a reporting platform like Sentry. 

> ## Learn more

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Related resources
```
